tc(){
apt-get install iproute


How to Use the Linux Traffic Control
https://netbeez.net/blog/how-to-use-the-linux-traffic-control/

tc - show / manipulate traffic control settings
https://www.linux.com/training-tutorials/tc-show-manipulate-traffic-control-settings/

Traffic Shaping with tc
https://www.badunetworks.com/traffic-shaping-with-tc/

Traffic Shaping, Bandwidth Shaping, Packet Shaping with Linux tc htb
https://www.iplocation.net/traffic-control
}

netstat(){ https://www.binarytides.com/linux-netstat-command-examples/
netstat - Print network connections, routing tables, interface statistics, masquerade connections, and multicast memberships

netstat -atnp | grep ESTA
netstat -aple | grep ntp

1. List all connections
netstat -a

2. List only TCP or UDP connections
netstat -at

3. Disable reverse dns lookup for faster output
netstat -ant

4. Check listening connections - Open Ports
netstat -ntl

5. Get process name/pid and user id
netstat -lnpt

6. Print statistics
netstat -s

7. Display kernel routing information
netstat -rn

8. Print network interfaces
netstat -i
netstat -ie

9. Get netstat output continuously
netstat -ct

10. Display multicast group information
netstat -g
}

Monit(){
1. Monit
2. Ganglia
3. Munin
4. Cacti
5. Nagios
6. Zabbix
7. Observium
8. Zenoss
9. Collectd
10. Argus

nmap        (network mapper) is a security tool for network exploration, q security scanning, and auditing. nmap sends specially crafted packets to discover hosts and services on a computer network, thus creating a "map" of the network.
zenmap      is the official GUI for Nmap It is not to replace Nmap, but to make Nmap more useful.
Angry       IP Scanner (ipscan) is an open-source and cross-platform network scanner designed to be fast and simple to use. It scans IP addresses and ports as well as has many other features.
ettercap    is a network security tool for man-in-the-middle attacks on LAN. It is capable of intercepting traffic on a network segment, capturing passwords, and conducting active eavesdropping against a number of common protocols.
bettercap    is like ettercap, but claims to be better.
netstat      (network statistics) is a command-line tool that displays network connections for TCP (both incoming and outgoing), routing tables, and a number of network interface and network protocol statistics. Example Usage: netstat -ie
nethogs     is a small "net top" tool. Instead of breaking the traffic down per protocol or per subnet, like most tools do, it groups bandwidth by process.
iptraf-ng   is a console-based network statistics utility for Linux. It gathers a variety of figures such as TCP connection packet and byte counts, interface statistics and activity indicators, TCP/UDP traffic breakdowns, and LAN station packet and byte counts.
nicstat     prints network traffic, packets or Kb/s read and written. Its a utility like top for network interface card (NIC). It displays information and statistics about all your network card such as packets, kilobytes per second, average packet sizes and more. Example Usage: nicstat -i wlan0 1


}

iperf(){
sudo apt-get install iperf
iperf -s -u
iperf -s -u -B 224.0.67.67
}

tcpdump(){

}

wireeth(){
ip          shows and manipulates routing, devices, policy routing, and tunnels
ifconfig    is a network interface configuration, control, and query tool. The ifconfig command is deprecated and you can replace ifconfig by ip link.
tc          (traffic control) configures and controls the Linux kernel's network scheduler to show and manipulate network traffic control settings
ifrename    allows to rename wireless network interfaces based on various static criteria to assign a consistent name to each interface.
arp         (address resolution protocol) is used to translate Internet protocol addresses to hardware interface addresses. The arp command is deprecated and you can replace arp -na by ip neigh.
arp-scan    is a very fast ARP packet scanner that shows every active IPv4 device on your Subnet (Arp-scan User Guide)
arpwatch    as the name implies, watches the MAC to IP pairings of devices on the network. If these change, then arpwatch will log and send an email to alert. In addition to changes, it will alert with new MAC to IP pairings.
route       command is used to show/manipulate the IP routing table. It is primarily used to setup static routes to specific host or networks via an interface.
nslookup    is a tool for querying the Domain Name System (DNS) to obtain domain name or IP address mapping or for any other specific DNS record.
}

wifi(){

iw          show / manipulate wireless devices and their configuration. It is also used in the system startup scripts of many operating systems.
iwconfig    is used to display and change the parameters of the wireless network interface (e.g. interface name, frequency, SSID). It may also be used to display the wireless statistics (extracted from /proc/net/wireless). Note that iwconfig is depreciated, you should use iw instead.
iwpriv      is the companion tool to iwconfig. iwpriv deals with parameters and setting specific to each driver (as opposed to iwconfig which deals with generic ones).
iwgetid     - reports ESSID, NWID or AP/Cell Address of wireless networks
iwlist      allow to initiate scanning and list frequencies, bit-rates, encryption keys, etc. Example Usage: iwlist wlan0 scan
wpa_supplicant

}