%cpu       %CPU     cpu utilization of the process in "##.#" format. Currently, it is the CPU time used divided by the
                    time the process has been running (cputime/realtime ratio), expressed as a percentage. It will not
                    add up to 100% unless you are lucky. (alias pcpu).

%mem       %MEM     ratio of the process’s resident set size  to the physical memory on the machine, expressed as a
                    percentage. (alias pmem).

args       COMMAND  command with all its arguments as a string. Modifications to the arguments may be shown. The
                    output in this column may contain spaces. A process marked <defunct> is partly dead, waiting to be
                    fully destroyed by its parent. Sometimes the process args will be unavailable; when this happens,
                    ps will instead print the executable name in brackets. (alias cmd, command). See also the comm
                    format keyword, the -f option, and the c option.
                    When specified last, this column will extend to the edge of the display. If ps can not determine
                    display width, as when output is redirected (piped) into a file or another command, the output
                    width is undefined. (it may be 80, unlimited, determined by the TERM variable, and so on) The
                    COLUMNS environment variable or --cols option may be used to exactly determine the width in this
                    case. The w or -w option may be also be used to adjust width.

blocked    BLOCKED  mask of the blocked signals, see signal(7). According to the width of the field, a 32-bit or
                    64-bit mask in hexadecimal format is displayed. (alias sig_block, sigmask).

bsdstart   START    time the command started. If the process was started less than 24 hours ago, the output format is
                    " HH:MM", else it is "mmm dd" (where mmm is the three letters of the month). See also lstart,
                    start, start_time, and stime.

bsdtime    TIME     accumulated cpu time, user + system. The display format is usually "MMM:SS", but can be shifted to
                    the right if the process used more than 999 minutes of cpu time.

c          C        processor utilization. Currently, this is the integer value of the percent usage over the lifetime
                    of the process. (see %cpu).

caught     CAUGHT   mask of the caught signals, see signal(7). According to the width of the field, a 32 or 64 bits
                    mask in hexadecimal format is displayed. (alias sig_catch, sigcatch).

cgroup     CGROUP   display control groups to which the process belonges.
class      CLS      scheduling class of the process. (alias policy, cls). Field’s possible values are:
                    -   not reported
                    TS  SCHED_OTHER
                    FF  SCHED_FIFO
                    RR  SCHED_RR
                    B   SCHED_BATCH
                    ISO SCHED_ISO
                    IDL SCHED_IDLE
                    ?   unknown value

cls        CLS      scheduling class of the process. (alias policy, class). Field’s possible values are:
                    -   not reported
                    TS  SCHED_OTHER
                    FF  SCHED_FIFO
                    RR  SCHED_RR
                    B   SCHED_BATCH
                    ISO SCHED_ISO
                    IDL SCHED_IDLE
                    ?   unknown value

cmd        CMD      see args. (alias args, command).

comm       COMMAND  command name (only the executable name). Modifications to the command name will not be shown.
                    A process marked <defunct> is partly dead, waiting to be fully destroyed by its parent. The output
                    in this column may contain spaces. (alias ucmd, ucomm). See also the args format keyword, the -f
                    option, and the c option.
                    When specified last, this column will extend to the edge of the display. If ps can not determine
                    display width, as when output is redirected (piped) into a file or another command, the output
                    width is undefined. (it may be 80, unlimited, determined by the TERM variable, and so on) The
                    COLUMNS environment variable or --cols option may be used to exactly determine the width in this
                    case. The w or -w option may be also be used to adjust width.

command    COMMAND  see args. (alias args, cmd).

cp         CP       per-mill (tenths of a percent) CPU usage. (see %cpu).

cputime    TIME     cumulative CPU time, "[dd-]hh:mm:ss" format. (alias time).

egid       EGID     effective group ID number of the process as a decimal integer. (alias gid).

egroup     EGROUP   effective group ID of the process. This will be the textual group ID, if it can be obtained and
                    the field width permits, or a decimal representation otherwise. (alias group).

eip        EIP      instruction pointer.

esp        ESP      stack pointer.

etime      ELAPSED  elapsed time since the process was started, in the form [[dd-]hh:]mm:ss.

euid       EUID     effective user ID. (alias uid).

euser      EUSER    effective user name. This will be the textual user ID, if it can be obtained and the field width
                    permits, or a decimal representation otherwise. The n option can be used to force the decimal
                    representation. (alias uname, user).

f          F        flags associated with the process, see the PROCESS FLAGS section. (alias flag, flags).

fgid       FGID     filesystem access group ID. (alias fsgid).

fgroup     FGROUP   filesystem access group ID. This will be the textual user ID, if it can be obtained and the field
                    width permits, or a decimal representation otherwise. (alias fsgroup).

flag       F        see f. (alias f, flags).

flags      F        see f. (alias f, flag).

fname      COMMAND  first 8 bytes of the base name of the process’s executable file. The output in this column may
                    contain spaces.

fuid       FUID     filesystem access user ID. (alias fsuid).

fuser      FUSER    filesystem access user ID. This will be the textual user ID, if it can be obtained and the field
                    width permits, or a decimal representation otherwise.

gid        GID      see egid. (alias egid).

group      GROUP    see egroup. (alias egroup).

ignored    IGNORED  mask of the ignored signals, see signal(7). According to the width of the field, a 32-bit or
                    64-bit mask in hexadecimal format is displayed. (alias sig_ignore, sigignore).
                    
label      LABEL    security label, most commonly used for SE Linux context data. This is for the Mandatory Access
                    Control ("MAC") found on high-security systems.

lstart     STARTED  time the command started. See also bsdstart, start, start_time, and stime.

lwp        LWP      lwp (light weight process, or thread) ID of the lwp being reported. (alias spid, tid).

ni         NI       nice value. This ranges from 19 (nicest) to -20 (not nice to others), see nice(1). (alias nice).

nice       NI       see ni. (alias ni).

nlwp       NLWP     number of lwps (threads) in the process. (alias thcount).

nwchan     WCHAN    address of the kernel function where the process is sleeping (use wchan if you want the kernel
                    function name). Running tasks will display a dash (’-’) in this column.

pcpu       %CPU     see %cpu. (alias %cpu).

pending    PENDING  mask of the pending signals. See signal(7). Signals pending on the process are distinct from
                    signals pending on individual threads. Use the m option or the -m option to see both. According to
                    the width of the field, a 32-bit or 64-bit mask in hexadecimal format is displayed. (alias sig).

pgid       PGID     process group ID or, equivalently, the process ID of the process group leader. (alias pgrp).

pgrp       PGRP     see pgid. (alias pgid).

pid        PID      process ID number of the process.

pmem       %MEM     see %mem. (alias %mem).

policy     POL      scheduling class of the process. (alias class, cls). Possible values are:
                    -   not reported
                    TS  SCHED_OTHER
                    FF  SCHED_FIFO
                    RR  SCHED_RR
                    B   SCHED_BATCH
                    ISO SCHED_ISO
                    IDL SCHED_IDLE
                    ?   unknown value
ppid       PPID     parent process ID.

psr        PSR      processor that process is currently assigned to.

rgid       RGID     real group ID.

rgroup     RGROUP   real group name. This will be the textual group ID, if it can be obtained and the field width
                    permits, or a decimal representation otherwise.

rip        RIP      64-bit instruction pointer.

rsp        RSP      64-bit stack pointer.

rss        RSS      resident set size, the non-swapped physical memory that a task has used (in kiloBytes).
                    (alias rssize, rsz).

rssize     RSS      see rss. (alias rss, rsz).

rsz        RSZ      see rss. (alias rss, rssize).

rtprio     RTPRIO   realtime priority.

ruid       RUID     real user ID.

ruser      RUSER    real user ID. This will be the textual user ID, if it can be obtained and the field width permits,
                    or a decimal representation otherwise.

s          S        minimal state display (one character). See section PROCESS STATE CODES for the different values.
                    See also stat if you want additional information displayed. (alias state).

sched      SCH      scheduling policy of the process. The policies SCHED_OTHER (SCHED_NORMAL), SCHED_FIFO, SCHED_RR,
                    SCHED_BATCH, SCHED_ISO, and SCHED_IDLE are respectively displayed as 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5.

sess       SESS     session ID or, equivalently, the process ID of the session leader. (alias session, sid).

sgi_p      P        processor that the process is currently executing on. Displays "*" if the process is not currently
                    running or runnable.

sgid       SGID     saved group ID. (alias svgid).
sgroup     SGROUP   saved group name. This will be the textual group ID, if it can be obtained and the field width
                    permits, or a decimal representation otherwise.

sid        SID      see sess. (alias sess, session).

sig        PENDING  see pending. (alias pending, sig_pend).

sigcatch   CAUGHT   see caught. (alias caught, sig_catch).

sigignore  IGNORED  see ignored. (alias ignored, sig_ignore).

sigmask    BLOCKED  see blocked. (alias blocked, sig_block).

size       SZ       approximate amount of swap space that would be required if the process were to dirty all writable
                    pages and then be swapped out. This number is very rough!

spid       SPID     see lwp. (alias lwp, tid).

stackp     STACKP   address of the bottom (start) of stack for the process.

start      STARTED  time the command started. If the process was started less than 24 hours ago, the output format is
                    "HH:MM:SS", else it is "  mmm dd" (where mmm is a three-letter month name). See also lstart,
                    bsdstart, start_time, and stime.

start_time START    starting time or date of the process. Only the year will be displayed if the process was not
                    started the same year ps was invoked, or "mmmdd" if it was not started the same day, or "HH:MM"
                    otherwise. See also bsdstart, start, lstart, and stime.

stat       STAT     multi-character process state. See section PROCESS STATE CODES for the different values meaning.
                    See also s and state if you just want the first character displayed.

state      S        see s. (alias s).

suid       SUID     saved user ID. (alias svuid).

suser      SUSER    saved user name. This will be the textual user ID, if it can be obtained and the field width
                    permits, or a decimal representation otherwise. (alias svuser).

svgid      SVGID    see sgid. (alias sgid).
svuid      SVUID    see suid. (alias suid).

sz         SZ       size in physical pages of the core image of the process. This includes text, data, and stack
                    space. Device mappings are currently excluded; this is subject to change. See vsz and rss.

thcount    THCNT    see nlwp. (alias nlwp). number of kernel threads owned by the process.

tid        TID      see lwp. (alias lwp).

time       TIME     cumulative CPU time, "[dd-]hh:mm:ss" format. (alias cputime).

tname      TTY      controlling tty (terminal). (alias tt, tty).

tpgid      TPGID    ID of the foreground process group on the tty (terminal) that the process is connected to, or -1
                    if the process is not connected to a tty.

tt         TT       controlling tty (terminal). (alias tname, tty).

tty        TT       controlling tty (terminal). (alias tname, tt).

ucmd       CMD      see comm. (alias comm, ucomm).

ucomm      COMMAND  see comm. (alias comm, ucmd).

uid        UID      see euid. (alias euid).

uname      USER     see euser. (alias euser, user).

user       USER     see euser. (alias euser, uname).

vsize      VSZ      see vsz. (alias vsz).

vsz        VSZ      virtual memory size of the process in KiB (1024-byte units). Device mappings are currently
                    excluded; this is subject to change. (alias vsize).

wchan      WCHAN    name of the kernel function in which the process is sleeping, a "-" if the process is running, or
                    a "*" if the process is multi-threaded and ps is not displaying threads.